Good afternoon Today we have a guest, e-e
prize winner, silver prize winner if I'm not
mistaken,
Nikita Nechaev slipchenko Good afternoon
Nikita Good afternoon Yes, I remember you in the
7th-8th grade, when you lived in
Khmelnytskyi, you were engaged in mathematics and
programming  And in the 8th grade,
I remember that you fell in love with chemistry so and so. How did
you get to the international chemistry olympiad?
You can tell about your path.
In the 7th grade, I just started
chemistry. I didn't really like it because there
was a lot to remember and that's why
I have more
soul, more it lived according to
mathematics,
to theorems, to proofs, to programming,
then to discrete mathematics, but then in the
eighth grade, this happened.
third diploma And then I
thought that I can do it, if
I can do it, then accordingly, we can,
how can I continue to do it quite
effectively, because programming  I did
n't have very good results.
But now I understand that I will need this knowledge of
programming in the future
in order to build a career as a
chemist. That is, I did not want to
be a chemist in the eighth grade. In the eighth grade, I did not want to
be a programmer. And now I want to be
I'm a chemist and a programmer, I'm in a similar situation. I also went
to the Chemistry Olympiad at school, I was a sucker for chemistry, I
was the winner of the regional champions of the city, and
I'm the opposite. I jumped from chemistry to
programming, I became a programmer.
in the tenth grade At the end of the 10th Yes, I
already switched to the programming of the fate of the
mirror,
how did you get to that point, did you somehow train
yourself to solve the problems, as
is usual, independent work,
there is a large plastic of methodical literature,
how to prepare for the Olympiads, I even have a
special collection of problems,
respectively, only for the Olympiad  level
and just solved the olympiads in
prepared for the city solved the city
olympiad prepared for the regional regional
layer  but the peculiarity of chemistry, unlike
mathematics, is that the amount of
basic knowledge that one must have in order to
solve problems is
much greater for chemistry than for mathematics.
11th grade But the chemist in the olympiad school started a
sharp class, you need to know already under this
joint program in order to effectively
enter the olympiads of the highest level and immediately
break it. Look,
I was in Kyiv last week, there they
awarded these olympiad prize winners,
by the way, you won't  in Ukraine, there were
guys from your team who
talked about how the Olympics went.
They said, "Damn, he's shorter,
he's a mathematician, he's there some problem, er,
in three minutes, everyone did it one at a time,
he did some third derivative in 3 minutes, took the
derivatives, so they
equated  and the
solution of the problem tomorrow turns out, you did with
mathematical knowledge, so you did what
others did for a long time with other methods, so it
turns out
it turns out to be read,
but it is worth understanding that
not all chemistry is solved by these two
derivatives, roughly speaking, I am organic chemistry,
for which you need to know several
hundred nominal reactions, is inorganic chemistry,
for which you need to know
several hundred properties of substances,
analytical chemistry, for which you need to know
analytical methods as an analytical method
the definition of the composition, the
amount of this and the qualitative composition is
physical chemistry, just like that, the name
speaks for itself, it is the
application of physical methods to
chemical reactions, it is obviously
based on mathematics, like all
physics, that is, in your opinion, did the mathematical
basis greatly contribute to the victory in
the chemistry olympiads or not  strong I
think not very strong because
physical chemistry occupies a not so not
so
muddy position in relation to other
parts of chemistry but it's just bright on the
internala these roommates remembered Yes,
because of the mathematicians, I connected now,
but look how
Selections for the international Olympiad are taking place in your Chemists
I know how math programmers do. I know how
chemists choose
eight of the best 11 students based on the results of sugar, and they
hold a week and a week of
theory and practice meetings. Practice
is held either at the company or there is Namin
or at the base of which national
university and after these selections are
selected  already four is better according to the
results of three control works
three or more or different number
depending on the
year and what are the specifics of the Olympiad who in
Ukraine selects these tasks are there any
graduates of past Olympiads are there
any special juries this is
done by the jury consisting of teachers of the
Institute of High Technologies  teachers, faculty,
employees,
employees of the
scientific research enterprise, the economy
scheme, young students, young
graduate students, masters, who were already
winners, or that is, these are the
teachers who teach children in schools, and
other people, so it turns out
that there is no such thing as a
teacher who still has children  and  here they already give
tasks, their children win regardless, and
that's cool, but look practically, that's what I
remember from my childhood, I had a
problem in chemistry with the practical part,
yes, because I was the problem solver in this,
I solved everything just by Hurrah  And here
Practically at the regional I failed the
practical tour because I had
problems with this
experience And because I didnt have this base, it was
serious, how did you prepare at home
or just prepare theoretically
and then practically do something there
on a large scale  My practice,
like everyone elses,
ended with the video. And they canceled
the Mathematics Olympiad when I was in the 9th
grade. They
conducted it remotely.
there was a tour in the 10th grade
. It was the
same in the 11th grade. And in the 11th grade, obviously, there
was no practice.  part of it only in
theory,
yes, I
love it. And even at the selection for the international
school, there was
practically no part either, because the information itself took place
online, so we should have
flown to China, but no one flew, they
organized the online Olympics
online.
from where No, we wrote
on the basis of the Institute of Ljubljana in Slovenia
Yes, because I and what I do
were in Germany and two others in
Ukraine and we came to Slovenia together with a
team from Hungary Accordingly, we
made three Ukrainian hubs in three teams
Yes, only small ones for three countries and
we  there and we wrote a theoretical
online tour there,
but in your opinion,
as I understand it
, the Chinese take the top in physics, chemistry, and programming.
in chemistry the same yes
yes absolutely the same yes last
year last year the first four
months were taken by a Chinese
this year the first three are absolutely Chinese the
fourth is a Russian and the fifth is a Chinese
in your opinion, because I always ask
myself the question first of all, and what if the
society And why are we not like the Chinese? So
why do you think China has such a cool
result in physics, mathematics, and chemistry
that they take away the entire Top
because they are simply pushed  on the task
they are there many of them are chosen as they are chosen and
look at the task let's say it is them so to
speak they could be forced to drill
probably
the results are excellent excellent results
are not even good but excellent the best
result internationally is your task,
you have to do it, it seems to me that this is how it
works, i.e. If we take in Ukraine,
we will gather a bunch of people, you have to take shorter
absolutely internationally and you have to
do it and they will do it  its just that they
do
nt have to want it themselves, that
is, it is necessary. That is, it is necessary to understand that in order to take even
gold, it is necessary, without exaggeration, to
sit for whole days and  it is possible to solve these
problems, and it is
probably difficult,
and accordingly, if they are very, very
hungry, these Chinese, if something does not
work out for someone, then only Pasat can do it.
When they say that there are many of them, I always give the
example of India. India, too, has a
billion people, so it is possible.  even
more than in China. I don't follow them anymore,
but India does not show such
outstanding results, that is, after all, it's
not just a sample of the population here, there are
some other factors, and I always
ask myself the question And what should we do so
that we  they showed the results like China,
for example, on yours, it is important,
maybe this is one of the state events of
China that the Chinese students always
always win, maybe India does not have
such a goal that the Indians win.
in Ukraine so that the
state or society could do so that the new
generations of these students could
achieve higher results there.
I think that this
because there was not enough, there was not enough of the Olympiad itself,
because if you take the
programming, there are many different
international competitions, or competitions within Ukraine
, or whether it is in mathematics.
Prubliv said that
in this match something is held every week
in Kyiv.
the most important all-Ukrainian student
Olympiad and after a few
so to speak
not online. And a correspondence student, if it were an olympiad
based on the results of which you can get to the
all-Ukrainian
that at Chemists, in fact. Yes, you have double-crossing.
there is covid, the Namin
plant irradiated its Olympiad, and in
Minsk
it is the same in terms of difficulty as
this Ukrainian Olympiad, the composition of the jury was
almost the same, which is obvious, and therefore, in
addition to the All-Ukrainian Olympiad, we
also now have the Minsk
Olympiad. And what is this  plant because I haven't heard
what he does. It's a chemical plant
that synthesizes a
lot of moles  They
already have a few billions. Is it a Ukrainian branch or is it just a
Ukrainian branch? Is
it Ukrainian?  things, a person who
is engaged in chemistry in Ukraine, so what are the
prospects, because for programmers, it is
more understandable that they fail, for example, in
our country.
don't go into science, that's right, into a scientific university, where
can a chemist get a job with us?
If the chemist is intelligent, he can go
to dynamite. Well, we're talking about protocols. They
're talking about this very same Kloukovi. He wo
n't go anywhere. Yes, you can get a job at her.
Namin at Ukr orgsynthesis, I know the scheme.  And
how does winter turn out? In other words, you wont be
doing
some kind of research. They are doing
research and writing scientific articles
for employees too  and that is, it turns out that they
really work in industry and
deal with flour, it turns out in parallel,
yes, one without the other, there is no meeting in chemistry.
But you, for example, personally, you
see yourself as a chemist in the future.
For example, in Ukraine, there is a strong school of
theoretical chemists. Do you want
somewhere for  border, we have a masters degree through
I know there is a strong masters degree in
chemoinformatics for the first time, a
girl, and she probably also conducts such preparatory training
for obtaining informatics, respectively,
and V and probably the
Institute of High Technologies about which
Shevchenko
and what is the fact Well, these two structural
units are the best in Ukraine in
Ukraine
and if you take, for example, the European
University, which has the coolest chemistry school
in all of Europe, I honestly don't know if you are in
Germany, the
university or Munich
is a strong school, actually
theoretically oriented, but what do you hear
, you want to be a theoretician and not in another
church.  The first
cupcake I had was no practice.
I can't even show off that
tall  with the level of my abilities and skills, you are a
synthesis, that is, I will not be able to acquire them, so
they can be acquired.
summer camp to go to a
math camp Tests or chemistry I
chose math
And after it I realized that I dont want
to do math olympiads for
me there are three school olympic
and higher mathematics and each of them is obviously
different from each other Although
there are also many
I'm interested in something in common. I'm currently
just studying at a preparatory college in
Germany, and after I finish it, I
will be able to enter Germany,
but if I don't get there, it's
okay. How did I return to Ukraine?
For example, I know that
there are different universities as a mathematics programmer  get rid of them
without entrance exams and a European
scholarship if they are some
honey  there is no such thing in Germany, there is no such thing
in Germany, because there is a completely
different system of education here, and it is necessary
because education in German universities is
conducted exclusively in German in
bachelor programs. Accordingly, I
need to study German for this year or six months in
order to get permission to
study at all  which does not depend on
whether you are a modeler or not, of course the
Medal will be the easiest to enter, but
without
proof of language knowledge it is impossible,
well, you have already analyzed your
competitors for admission, who I understand is that
chemists from different countries
want to enter this university, the same Chinese,
for example  and do they apply there or not?
I think that more go Yes. Just this one from
Asian countries, not only for not only from
China,
somewhere they apply en masse, I am interested. By the
way, I watched.
not
only for the Chinese, South Korea
is very popular with Ivan Singapore, and this is
some such phenomenon  Yes, we
can see that they are steadily
occupying very top positions with their hands. So here I am,
talking there with various people who
participated in the Olympiads and prepare, who are
organizing somewhere, I always ask how
we can take their positive
experience and
implement it in our country.  that we also
want four out of four there or
five out of five there to have gold medals,
it's true Well, that's what I'm saying, it's a country.
Scientifically honestly, dont consider
it, because
education is
more expensive
there. But in general, where in the world is
the coolest hangout of chemists, where
does it take place in which
[music]
university Brains of the whole world are more interested in us there,
it turns out
interesting Well, I think that we will also
compete like that  war will come Yes, of
course, we will be, our country will
actually be quite good, there is a theoretical school,
yes, for many, I think so,
I am not a classical scientist  It
seems to me that we have quite powerful scientists.
Well, we have the system itself, if we need to rebuild it a little bit.
Okay. But with the
International, we will come back. How
do you have two tours of 5
hours
each?
one practical tour for each of 5 hours,
this year there was only one theoretical
tour without hours and the number of tasks
varies from year to year, the product can be 8, it can
be 6, it can be 7, and the task you get is
written in your own language, and
then how are they checked?
in programming it's easier, I sent it to
Prague, I did it, I checked it like this But in chemistry,
how it happens is that
we write the solutions according to our condition, then this
division, then this solution is sent to
the mentor, the
curator, and they translate it,
scan it, and send it to you, the jury,
our Ukrainians too, yes  it turns out so
so to translate And then how does it
turn out that the Chinese write in their
own language and in their own language, their mentors translate,
send the jury and they connect  they
can translate something that is not what the
participant wrote, it turns out, or how theoretically.
Yes, there may be translation errors,
but it is all built on some kind of
trust
, they will not bite. Well, well, there
can be two things here, firstly, someone can make
us wet, and friend, someone can also make a mistake
when translating  that's the same. And what
part of your solution is occupied by the descriptive part?
It's not a formula, because it's a formula. It's clear that
it's written that way, that it's written that way.
Personally, I try not to
write too
much.
usually they just give out forms and
answers where you have to and just fill in
or write a structural formula or a number
very rarely when you
have to explain everything very thoroughly,
but for example, from what you heard about
chemists from people who are not chemists and from an
average citizen, the funniest thing is that
you can  examples of the process to
you as a chemist seem quite funny to
me, these are suitable when he found out what
I do in chemistry and the result
to ask Do you know how to
centralize a drug? I say yes, all ordinary people
look at breaking back.
in your opinion, from what age do children
have to do chemistry,
probably in the
sixth grade, in school, in the seventh, yes
, it starts like this, in this case, it
starts. When I was in the 8th grade, I started that chemistry
from the 6th, that is, it is
not too early.  if the
sound if you can
get interested in this subject, that is, the sixth
grade, make it
preparatory, so to speak, this is my kind of
story telling,
strict scientific
terms, look, Im just remembering myself, I
havent done chemistry for a long time, Ill even say
after entering the university and
put chemistry aside in  schematics, i.e., programming,
but I just remember myself up to the 10th grade.
I generally struggled with chemistry, and then I
started organics. And I
don't like organics  organic and
inorganic are obvious to me, completely the opposite,
organic chemistry for me is very
logical and very strict,
and to be honest, even a little like some kind of magic,
there are many nominal reactions and they are visible
as her
spell, I had this feeling in this class as well
when I was just starting higher
mathematics and I was interested in all these
techniques, Kraivar's method of integration by parts,
it was all like some kind of
magic spell.
I liked it very much.
On the contrary, I
saw and felt the inorganic one directly like that, and I also had some
problem. For two, I  I also took books,
then there were collections. Well, that was years and
years ago, 20 or so years ago, there were Romanian
chemistry olympiads. There were some Moscow
chemistry olympiads. So, there were such collections,
well, they are old, now you have some new ones, for
sure, and more. But organics, I
dont know. So  it somehow didn't work for me, well, to
each his own, because you know that organics are
kind of far away here, did you even understand, did you
even see Sometimes these cleaning products there somehow
fly off the reaction to
that is, you theoretically only
think that there is something out there. It was just how it was
synthesized. You did some experiments at home.
That is, it turns out that you were able to reach
the
silver medalist of the
inter-year competition without smoking it at home without
doing any experiments.
what
can it be invented,
i.e. enough theoretical knowledge,
understanding of conclusions
[music]
Yes, but this, but it works accordingly,
only these and only when there is no practical
tour, so that there would be practical works, and then I
would, and in addition to theoretical training, I
would still remain in the circle  and they were already on the
basis of the school, accordingly, I would put experiments
with titration or something else floated in the
Kyiv school in which I studied n 1145
was this basis material and here is such a
question even in
previous years, here is how the chemistry team performed
at the internationals in the previous years, there were
gold  Was there only bronze there? How is
your result, as I understand it,
the highest from this year's team? I took
silver and popper.  some years that the boys took
gold in previous years, they chose gold, they took gold in a certain year,
it is said in 2008, they took three golds and in the
past, and yes, in past years,
they took two, two silvers, they took iron.
the guys were just doing it themselves. Did
they have any kind of systematic training, well, for
sure, for
sure, the tasks will be
quite adequate,
if they come across, not everyone
comes across the same Yes, simply, Yes,
there are
such tasks, you just need to sit carefully and
write some equations for half an hour and then
solve them  There is a task in which
you just need to
sit for a few minutes to think and
come up with an idea, that is, conceptual
tasks,
technical and conceptual tasks, and by the way,
about the salaries of chemists, because I
dont understand this at all. Now a lot of
children want to go to IT because of the IT type.  it's fashionable that
IT people earn in bucks and all the moms of
these circles there are now in every attic and
in every basement.
I'm like a
cool chemist at the same
factory, who is doing some
kind of research. What are the salary levels of these
chemists?
They know that it's just that students
can, students can already, students who have already
entered university
can already work at Yenomin if
they are sensible clips and  to earn much
less money, I
honestly wont say how much, but my
friends told me that this is quite
North for a person Without a
concept, it can
be different for everyone, for someone it is quite a lot,
500 dollars for each 5 thousand
dollars, yes, it can, and here it is interesting Because I
I'm just looking at our current
situation, so that everyone is there, everyone, everyone
rushes into it. Yes, you are dumb, dumb, but
in short, he drove so
smartly, and other fields are physics,
chemistry. We have quite a lot of squatters and
there is no such popularity, because
once upon a time they brought  lawyers and accountants are
now all getting into IT and it
seems to me that the state has such a
gap in chemists and physics there  by the way,
how are our
higher education institutions selected for chemistry, are there any shortages,
now I know that they have introduced an additional quota
for the recruitment of natural specialties,
just for chemistry, biology, and physics, and
now there are more state orders for these state programs
this year,
that is, the state is now
allocating to this direction
you won't pay much attention or you won't do any technology if
there are no technologists, so conditionally you can't
build a factory in the field everything And
who are you going to hire specialists from where you wo
n't train them in a month?
they
went to that university, there must be a
school base, yes, but for example, in Ukraine,
where do children usually come from, are they
chemists from different regions, or are there
any regions that dominate there and
their children regularly come from
training?
I am Lviv, namely  Lviv Physical Education
Lyceum
from Lviv Oblast, a very huge
quota goes to the whole of Ukraine,
and of course Kyiv is
portable 145 leader
171 also it is for  I am a chemistry school,
that is, there is such a dissystem. They study there
and they give results, so the most
systematically study just like this in fmail
Lviv
[music]
Just like the guys were in the team
this year Yes from Lviv yes yes one
boy from Lviv and another from
Kyiv  that Lviv told me that you did the
third derivative type over and over again.
That problem
jumped out. Yes, I think
you changed it from the point of view of how you studied
to be a chemist, so the
school course, so that you changed it in the
school course, I would have started chemotherapy earlier,
later added  I would add some chapters or there
would add lessons reduce Well,
do you see what can be improved in a
school for studying chemistry?
I think that it is possible to expand the
program a little and
talk only about inorganic and
organic chemistry, and also touch on
analytical or physical chemistry a little, at least on
some  at the basic level
so that children can see it, maybe someone
likes it Maybe someone
likes solving
mathematical equations more or likes it more
conduct calculations
on
formulations and thus determine the
composition of substances,
and then this person will go to the Olympiad,
enter a university and become a good chemist,
but immediately on the counter question, I
always ask it to myself and in general also to
society, is it necessary, for example,
to teach chemistry to everyone in a row like this  because I
remember my school. Yes, where I studied, I
took first place at the city Olympiad,
second at the regional one, and chemistry in my class was
understood only by me, that is, another world, they
came and understood physics.
For them, the 10th-11th grade is like a
spell. There was magic in such a card. Magic is of
such an incomprehensible form, that is, according to
your observations, when you studied there in the
seventh and eighth grade, there was the ninth and 10th. To what
extent did your classmates
understand what it was all about and whether
it was necessary  to torture him there, everyone's chemistry,
I think that straight people should know chemistry at such a
very basic level,
but understand chemical processes Why was he there
, why, why is
something happening  Yes, and not otherwise.
I think, after all, it is necessary to
understand that if you simply put
water in front of the TV, nothing
will happen, and water will not happen if you stick out this
medical crystal. Then there will be nothing.
is dusted on the
broads,
because as they say, if a person
learns biology, physics or chemistry, then
this life is full of
incredible discoveries.
not in the topic of higher education,
there or there, chemistry, but lies somewhere in the nature of
some deeper psychology, here,
if it is necessary to study human existence,
what are you not doing? We live.
more Well, from your
observation, for example, in your class.
So when did you study there in the seventh or eighth
grade? And when are the older grades, how many
people from your class understood the chemistry
that was taught at school,
half understood,
half means that they
received satisfactory grades, i.e. 9 and
above, the
other half
did not understand and even tried to
understand this, and the same is true of physics and
biology in the 10-11th grade with  It was
better, obviously, because here is a school of
natural sciences, the management complex is
there, but we have such a system that
is interesting if you put it divided into two
parts. One part has two
hours more chemistry weeks, and the other
part has two hours more information.
The part that teaches computer science  I
wasn't very interesting to them. That is,
you didn't solve the problem, you got
a 10, and that was more than
enough for them, because I just look at our
education system, somehow it is built
in such a way that it is a wasteful use of time, that is,
for a person who has already chosen a path  there is
mathematics or a programmer, so she is
so in-depth in chemistry there, as the school gives,
now it seems to me that it is not necessary, the
same if a person  I chose chemistry and
biology there, so she will be a doctor, but her physics is
some sections, yes, there is no need. In my
opinion, it is so torturing here, she is so
mixed, I dont know whether it is right or wrong.
I think that it is unnecessary.
if a child in the
10th grade is determined to go to a
chemistry profile, for example. Well,
he will
have a minimum of physics there, that is, as a general overview,
so that he understands how the light shines and
how something heats up, something cools,
why cant you put your fingers in the socket? Well, its
like this  conditionally equal, but he does not need to
write some equations of the maximula there,
for example.
What is your opinion on this, I think
that after all, it is
not necessary to load too much with
unnecessary subjects, a
person who will teach
two specialized classes, because if
someone thinks in general education classes, then
I think the
name speaks for itself  for myself
general education to get a general
light but there will be specialized
civilized chemistry not tr  I do
n't want to talk too much about physics to a
specialist in physics. You need
to talk a lot about history
and so on, even though these are the
main ones.
to carry out
syntheses, but then I realized that
I prefer to make calculations
or
write these equations by hand or
solve equations with the help
of class computer programs, get drunk on
them actually written,
and even now I even notice that the story
that I tried to skip in
order to spend more time  chemistry, it is now quite
important. Since here in Germany few
people are obviously familiar with the cultural and
historical of Ukraine, and therefore it is necessary to
often tell why we are not
Fraternal nations,
why should we still give weapons, or
will it be better for us, for us, a teacher for the
whole world? By the way, I  also at school, I
didn't like history. She wasn't like that
, but she was already somewhere older  x courses at the
university, thats how I started. On the contrary, I read, Im
interested in it now, and its
perceived in a completely different way. When in school, it
somehow came down to the following: So learn
when someone died and was born there, what
was their name? Well, in short, some such
encyclopedic cramming was so uninteresting.
And now, now  You're watching, the
story is actually so interesting, if it's
at the right angle, I'll move it. Yes, it
might be. So, for example, you wish
for children who somewhere get on the path of a
young chemist, and they don't have
any bands there in their cities.
How can you move them?  What are the online
circles, so how can you realize your
potential in general?  in
addition, there is also a Facebook page, namely the
Chemistry Olympiad,
on which news, etc. are published  formation
about about the Olympics and I think
if you can write on this ask
on this page write them a message
that if so and so I am in
such and such a place Unfortunately there is
no way
to purchase all the literature Can you
recommend any free anals
Can you be  Please send me some
relevant PDF. I think that the
organizers and the jury will not refuse or
help.
Then send me the link to this one so that
when I make the video, I will insert a message so that
people who are interested because in fact,
even if there are 10,000 people who will watch us, so
will they  500 people are those who could potentially eat
them or their children. Just as it is interesting, it
can be so if even 10 people from
it
fall into this group, yes. That is, somewhere they
will become interested because, like
me, they also gave me a book of Olympiad
problems in
chemistry, I got involved in it.  Well, I
got involved and went on. So, if in this
two-hour school, then the school is completely, if we
somehow because of the video, there are 10 people, thats
even two or three if they get into this two-
year school.  It is possible that somewhere we will be
watched by the future gold medalist of the
International Chemistry Olympiad, which is
embarrassing for the Chinese as well, as we
also contribute to this.
to help is
great in our state in the Ukrainian
state
Thank you very much Nikita
Nechaev Slipchenko silver medalist of the International
Olympiad in Informatics from the
Ukrainian team this year and a
future chemist theoretician we hope
will be very outstanding for us to hear Oh by the
way do you hope for the Nobel Prize in the future
I honestly don't think so  that the child has
some such feelings but there is but something
but something very
that this is very outstanding I think I can do it
or if it is not very outstanding then that Buska is
specialized some for example some
method of some solution of some
equation of the
equation even improve this
slightly improve  and then the
execution time of the program will drop from where  a few
months, maybe up to a few days, but
look, in the seventh or eighth grade, did you
imagine that you would become the silver
medalist of the International Chemistry Olympiad in the 11th grade? I
didn't imagine it like that. And why are you
looking, you see how much has passed, three years there
or four Yes  Since that time, you see that
then you couldn't even dream about
it, and now you look at how
simple it is, it can be a human premium again
, yes. That is, you now think that it's
no, no, it's something unattainable, but in fact,
it's all simple, that is  I always
motivate everyone. That is, we are
on this, there are no impossible things, so the
question is how we move, when do you
remember? So when you were in Khmelnytskyi
Voda, everyone in the seventh or eighth
grade went to our algorithm circle, yes,
when I gathered this circle in Khmelnytskyi
some teachers from Khmelnytskyi
told me that there is a math teacher
, we will not have anything shorter, even at this
level, at the all-Ukrainian level, our children are not like
that, but in Kyiv there are children, but here, no, not such
children, and what do we have this year  to the eyes of the two
international prize-winners, there were also many
prize-winners of different gametes, that is, then
there were six or seven years, thats why it seemed like
it was someone, too, there were others
.  I don't know if you believe in yourself
Yes, I believed in you
yes And I think the audience Yes, who will watch us,
write
your thoughts in the comments, how do you feel about chemistry in general, how do you
feel about chemists, how
do you imagine their contribution to the future
because By the way  very often we don't understand
that everything we hold in our hands, from the
phone to this, is the result of the work of
physics. Chemists are programmers, that is, a
whole class of engineers.
of telephones
Yes, I have telephones in wooden ones,
that is, all the materials that are around us
in fact, Yes, with the help of some
people who synthesized something,
improved something, calculated something, yes, and
write whether to believe in what  Nikita
Nechayav Slipchenko will one day receive the Nobel
Prize for some cool outstanding
discoveries, thank you very much, very nice. Glory to Ukraine